RAM concepts

SRAM (Static random-access memory)is a type of random-access memory (RAM) that uses latching circuitry (flip-flop) to store each bit. SRAM is volatile memory.
SRAM is faster and more expensive than DRAM; it is typically used for the cache and internal registers of a CPU
SRAM offers a simple data access model and does not require a refresh circuit. Performance and reliability are good and power consumption is low when idle
Since SRAM requires more transistors to implement, it is less dense and more expensive than DRAM and also has a higher power consumption during read or write access
SRAM may be integrated as RAM or cache memory in micro-controllers (usually from around 32 bytes up to 128 kilobytes), as the primary caches in powerful microprocessors, such as the x86 family.



DRAM - (Dynamic random-access memory) is a type of random-access semiconductor memory that stores each bit of data in a memory cell consisting of a tiny capacitor and a transistor.
The capacitor can either be charged or discharged; these two states are taken to represent the two values of a bit(0 or 1)
to prevent damage DRAM requires an external memory refresh circuit which periodically rewrites the data in the capacitors, restoring them to their original charge.
DRAM typically takes the form of an integrated circuit chip, which can consist of dozens to billions of DRAM memory cells. DRAM chips are widely used in digital electronics where low-cost and high-capacity computer memory is required.
One of the largest applications for DRAM is the main memory (colloquially called the "RAM")
Due to its need of a system to perform refreshing, DRAM has more complicated circuitry and timing requirements than SRAM, but it is much more widely used. The advantage of DRAM is the structural simplicity of its memory cells
only one transistor and a capacitor is required per bit.

SDRAM(Synchronous dynamic random-access memory)
SDRAM has a synchronous interface, whereby changes on control inputs are recognised after a rising edge of its clock input unlike DRAM which is asynchronous 
SDRAM derives the DDR1/2/3/4/5 family

DDIM - dual in-line memory module, commonly called a RAM stick, comprises a series of DRAM integrated circuits.
DDIM modules are mounted on a printed circuit board and designed for use in personal computers, workstations, printers, and servers.

ECC - (Error correction code memory) detects and corrects n-bit data corruption which occurs in memory. ECC memory is used in most computers where data corruption cannot be tolerated under any circumstances
ECC is more expensive and less efficient that regular DRAM and SDRAM so is typically not used in personal computers.

cache is a hardware or software component that stores data so that future requests for that data can be served faster.
cache hierarchy refers to a memory architecture that uses a hierarchy of memory stores based on varying access speeds to cache data.
Highly requested data is cached in high-speed access memory stores, allowing swifter access by CPU cores
While using the cache may improve memory latency, it may not always result in the required improvement for the time taken to fetch data due to the way caches are organized and traversed.

